### TCP/IP Guide Notes
- Cool little point about how networking was necessitated largely because of the advent of the PC. In the mainframe era, users in the same organization were implicitly connected by virtue of using the same machine. From page 6.
- Protocols are agreements on how to communicate. They are not enforced upon each other in the sense of legal contracts, but are rather shared definitions of the symbols used at various stages in a connection. Protocols are effectively a language.
- Circuit switching and packet switching.
  - Circuit switching is effectively dedicating a path in the graph entirely to one specific connection.
  - Packet switching allows multiplexing of paths in the network, but also means that some packets may be lost, reordered, or sent via different paths.
  - A packet switched TCP/IP connectionc can go over a dialup connection, which goes over a phone line that is circuit switched, while the underlying data in the phone line is itself actually packet switched. Basically, you can have layers of one on top of the other.
- Connection oriented versus connectionless protocols.
  - A protocol can be either.
  - Circuit switching implies connection orientation, but connection orientation does not imply circuit switching. TCP itself is an example of a packet switched system that is connection oriented.
- Various synonyms for packet:
  - Packet: what it says on the tin.
  - Datagram: used synonomously with packet, but also to refer to higher level protocols.
  - Frame: refers to the data link layer packets. Name comes from the fact that is created by "framing" the packets with extra information needed for link layer concerns.
  - Cell: generally fixed size unit of data. Frames are transmitted as cells, it seems?
  - {P,S}DU, or {Protocol,Service} Data Unit: this is a bit tricky. A layer n PDU is composed of layer n encapsulation data, and a layer n+1 PDU, which is also called a layer n SDU. Layer n PDUs are used for communicating with other devices at the same layer.
  - Segments: an example of a term used only in one protocol – in this case, TCP. Synonomous with packet, it seems.
- Data layout seems to typically be header, data (or payload), footer (or trailer). Data is optional (though content free messages are rare). Footer/trailer is also optional.
- Transmission types. These correspond to addressing concerns, but the correspondence is pretty obvious. The exception is that multicast requires a way of efficiently denoting intended group, which involves a number of interesting tradeoffs.
  - Unicast: directed to one computer.
  - Multicast: directed to a group of computers.
  - Broadcast: directed to everyone that's (directly?) reachable.
  - Anycast: this is only part of IPv6, it seems. Sends a message only to the closest member of a group.
- Network structure can be peer to peer (in other words, the network is egalitarian) or client server (the network has centralized authorities).
  - Emphasizes the role of TCP/IP in enforcing the necessity of and promoting the popularity of client server model.
- Network sizes:
  - LAN: one building, generally. Relatively small number of computers, all relatively close to each other.
  - WLAN: a wireless LAN needs to be relatively spatially small, just like a LAN. This is a little more flexible, but it will generally be true.
  - WAN: a wide area network is, well, one that covers a wide area.
  - CAN: campus area network. Multiple buildings, as of a corporate, military, or university campus.
  - MAN: metropolitan area network. What it says on the tin.
  - PAN: personal area network. Like, your bluetooth devices on your person, etc.
- Networks, subnetworks, etc.:
  - Network: groups of computers. Most general term. If it gets to be complex enough, often called an internetwork, specifically in the case where it is composed of many networks. Exception being corporate networks.
    - Uses the example of Microsoft's corporate network which is composed of "thousands or even tens of thousands of machines". How cute, thinking that a large company's network would have only tens of thousands of machines. I guess the book _is_ ten years old.
  - Subnetwork: a contiguous subset of another network.
  - Segment: a subnetwork, but smaller. Alternately, and it seems more commonly, the lowest complexity unit of a network. Whether this is n computers connected in sequence, or directly to the same hub, the point is there's no extra complexity. Some protocols limit how large a segment can be.
    - A segment originally denoted a specific piece of wire connecting two computers. Since that wire can only carry one signal at a time, it was also a collision domain. Over time, collision domains were extended by connecting multiple computers into one hub, which would repeat all messages it received, and this came to be called a segment. This seems to be how the definition I came up with above originated.
  - Internetwork: a network of networks. Also has the more specific sense of layer 2 networks that have been joined by layer 3/4 (i.e.: TCP/IP) to form one (inter)network. This sense is specific to TCP/IP.
- Of the internet: "though it might be a bit melodramatic to say so, to many people, the Internet is a way of life." Nope, doesn't seem melodromatic at all.
- Intranets/extranets: these are kind of dumb terms. An intranet is internal to an organization. An extranet is not internal, which means it's... an internetwork, or an internet? This is why these are dumb.
