### TCP/IP Guide

- Performance
  - Tradeoffs
    - Cost trades off with about everything else, directly or indirectly.
    - Quality doesn't directly compete with cost, but it comes out of the same budget.
    - Standardization: newer, proprietary systems may be faster.
    - Reliability: higher performance systems tend to require more effort, expertise, and cost to maintain.
    - Expandability and Upgradability: higher performance networks can be much more difficult to expand.
    - Ease of maintenance is another indirect tradeoff.
    - Premises concerns: do you really want to run wire? How much wire? How expensive can it be?
  - Measurements
    - Speed: "rated speed is the biggest performance magic number in networking." Basically, it doesn't mean much. Different kinds of speed matter for different use cases. Generally far outstrips the usable capacity.
    - Bandwidth
      - Commonly used as bits/time.
      - Originates from literal width of frequency band in radio applications. Related to the [Nyquist Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist–Shannon_sampling_theorem).
      - These two _are_ directly correlated, but they aren't identical.
    - Throughput
      - Also bits/time.
      - Based on measurement.
      - Strictly limited by rated speed and bandwidth.
      - Unfortunately, often used interchangeably with bandwidth.
    - Latency
      - The number we consider the least, but perhaps one of the most important.
      - How long does it take to get a response?
      - Not strictly a networking point, but latency trades off with throughput (on a per-resource basis) directly:
        - To have a higher throughput system, you have to keep each resource as occupied as possible.
        - To have lower latency, you have to have a resource ready to process any incoming request at any moment.
        - In other words, the ideal low latency system has a mean of zero items waiting to be processed, whereas an ideal high throughput system has a mean of no fewer than the number of items that can be taken off of the queue at once. In other words, a high throughput system should always be able to get as much work to do as it is capable of.
    - Units
      - Bits are the smallest, indivisible units of information (0 or 1). Generally represented as lowercase b in abbreviations.
      - Bytes are generally eight bits (in modern networking, as far as I know, they are _always_ eight bits). These are sometime called octets. Generally represented as upppercase B in abbreviations.
      - Characters are sometimes used too. This is generally interchangeable with bytes.
      - Baud is complex. It's the number of transitions possible per second, also known as the signalling rate. It's *not* equivalent to bits per second, however! Because of compression (the book says modulation) techniques a 28,800 bit per second modem is actually operating at 3,200 baud. Named after Jean-Maurice-Émile Baudot.
  - Factors affecting network peformance
    - Overhead: the difference between rated speed and throughput is always significant, even in an ideal configuration. 20% is a good rule of thumb for what to expect on a LAN. This overhead goes to things like addressing, error correction, framing, etc.
    - Configuration: misconfiguration can easily cause up to a 90% reduction in throughput. Drivers for newer, bleeding edge devices suffer from this more than older, tried and true devices.
    - Physical/external factors: cabling, wireless interference, etc.
    - Asymmetry: many (most consumer) networking technologies provide more throughput in one direction than another.
  - Plexes and access media
    - Simplex channels can only send one direction.
    - Half duplex channels can send any direction, but only one direction at a time.
    - Full duplex channels can send both directions at once.
    - Shared access media are basically like a bunch of people in a small room. Anyone can talk at any time, but if two people do, no one can understand very well. Half duplex channels often share an access medium, and sometimes can share that medium among many computers, leading to a lot of time where each computer can't send.
  - Quality of Service (QoS)
    - Allows for reserving some resource or requesting some special treatment for some period of time, to support connections sensitive to certain latency or other characteristics.
- Standards
  - Kinds
    - Proprietary: fully controlled by one organization.
    - Open: made by cooperation of some sort, descriptions are generally available to newcomers.
    - De facto: unofficially agreed on because of the dominance of some prior proprietary standard.
