## 2016-01-26

Just went to the Metropolitan Museum with Andrée and an RC talk today. It was a good day full of good talks. Two interesting ideas were had:

- The connection between accounting as a means of having the life you want and definite optimism, as described in Zero to One by Peter Thiel. Additionally, how definite optimism is very, very often put into practice as modeling and simulation, or thinking from first principles.
- How deciding to provide basic needs to people is extremely complicated, because most needs are related to their social utility, which means there is no clear cut and obvious sense of basic needs. Not that this is irresolvable inherently, but it's definitely hard. Also, how pluralism and the difference between the libertarian desire for negative freedom and the radical left desire for positive freedom make shit all fucking messy.

Oh, one other important note: fucked up my sleep hardcore (or rather, it reached a new crescendo of fuckedness last night). Was up until 8 AM. Trying to fix this by going to bed now (about 1 AM), and sticking to a earlier bedtime again from now on.

Okay, some other quick notes, because I think they're interesting:

- Went to shake shack for the first time today. It's good, portions are small, bacon is undercooked. Not amazed by shake.
- Marvin Minsky died today, which while it's not part of my day, is sort of a big deal.
- I'm losing a lot of games of [Churchill Solitaire](https://medium.com/@DonRumsfeld/at-83-i-decided-to-develop-an-app-dadd4e53d342#.2e7a5vcae). The game is terribly implemented in so many little ways its absurd, but at least the underlying card game itself is fun. Tempted to reimplement it myself so I don't have to use the shit fucking app of theirs.

# Second Half (lol)

Well, I realized there's an off by one error in my notes. See, I'd been doing my notes so late at night, so often, that I was always labeling them with the next calendar day. To remedy this, I will just throw today's note under this (the appropriate) date, and start labeling things right tomorrow.

- Lin had this brilliant (but super simple idea) for how to fix my sleep: just go to bed when I get home. I mean, I know all the reasons why I don't want to do that, and why I may not want to keep that up in the long run. But I'm going to try. Well, right after finishing these notes, that is.
- Did interview cake today. Did okay on the stock price problem, and did a quicker job of bombing the bottom up dynamic programming solution to the ways of making change problem. Not sure how I bombed it twice. Going to do more reading on it tomorrow.
- Played with python's debugger a little bit. It's convenient. I should use it way more.

I managed to get to sleep at about 1:30 AM yesterday. Aiming for 12:30 today, which should be possible based on being almost done now, at about 12:07. Also did interview prep stuff with Lin and Andrée (separately) today. Had a very nice discussion at dinner with David Anderson, Lin, and Andrew Desharnais. It was about these notes, the ideas about writing from essentialism, beeminder and my opinions about why it's bad, and other things. It was quite pleasant.

Didn't really do any reading or web stuff today, so, no links. Goodbye.
